# Launch an EC2 Instance
- Step 1 - Choose a Name for your EC2 Instance
- Step 2 - Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
  - AMI is a template used to create a VM
  - AMI contains the pre-installed operating system, application server, and applications required to launch your instance
  - There is a variety of Linux, Windows, and other OS servers available.
  - For this lab, select **Amazon Linux 2 AMI**
- Step 3 - Choose an Instance Type
  - Instance type offers varying combinations of:
    -  CPUs, 
    -  memory (GB), 
    -  storage (GB), 
    -  types of network performance, 
    -  and availability of IPv6 support
  -  Select the hardware configuration of your instance. 
     -  The t2.micro instance type, which is available under the free tier, is selected by default. 
     -  It has 1 vCPU, 1 GiB memory, the default root volume, and supports additional EBS storage
- Step 4 - Download Key Pair
  - AWS generates a pair of public and private (encrypted) keys, that help in logging into the EC2 instance. 
  - Download the private key (.pem file) locally. 
  - The public key will be stored on the EC2 instance, while the private key will be available to download locally, just once. 
  - If the private key file (.pem) is misplaced or lost, AWS does not allow regenerating the private key.
- Step 5 - Configure Security Group
  - Attach a set of firewall rules to your instance(s) that controls the incoming traffic to your instance(s). 
  - Select Create security group for the firewall.
- Step 6 - Configure Storage

## Command-Line Interface: Command-Line statements for Launching and EC2 Instance:

- Step 1: Create Key-Pair
```sh
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name --query –output text > pem
```

- Step 2: Create a Security Group
```sh
aws ec2 create-security-group –group-name
```
- Step 3: EC2 instance

```sh
aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-xxxxxxxx --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name
```

# #####

# Connect to Linux Instance

I can connect to my Linux/Ubuntu EC2 instance using the private key generated by AWS. 
To get started, start my instance and connect to it.

## Start and Connect my Instance:

- Go to the EC2 Dashboard and open Instances. 
- Click the check box for the instance I would like to start. 
- Select Start from the Instance State dropdown menu. 
- Once the Instance state is running, I can select the instance and click Connect.
```
AWS has an EC2 Instance Connect(opens in a new tab) wizard, which can help me to connect directly from the EC2 dashboard. 
Alternatively, I can use SSH as well.
```
## Linux/Mac users
```
Linux/Mac users can also log into their EC2 instance using Secure Shell (SSH) client. 
The following are the steps:
```
1. Change the Private key file permissions
   - Open an SSH client/terminal. 
   - Navigate to the directory where you have your private key (.pem) file in your local machine, 
   - and **change the permissions to hide it from the public for SSH to work**, using the command
```sh
chmod 400 <path of private key .pem file locally>
```
2. Connect using the Public DNS
    - I will log-in using the **default name**. 
    - The default username for Ubuntu instances is **ubuntu**, and for Linux, it is **ec2-user**. 
    - Connect to your instance using its public DNS, as:
```sh
ssh -i <path of private key .pem file locally> <public DNS>
```

## Windows users
As Windows users I can also log in using PuTTY utility. The following are the steps:
    - Download, and install the PuTTY utility suite in my Windows machine 
    - I will need to have my PuTTY Private Key (.ppk) file locally
    - Run the PuTTY to connect to the EC2 instance.
    - Get the public DNS / IP address of my EC2 instance (host) from my AWS EC2 dashboard. 

